README.md, before:

# Raylib Sorting Visualizer

A sorting algorithm visualizer created with [Raylib](https://github.com/raysan5/raylib) and C.

## Features

- `Array` struct pointer type for dealing with variable-length arrays (see [src/Array.c](src/Array.c) for documentation on how to use)
- `Algorithm` struct type for dealing with algorithms (contains a `bool (*)(Array)` function pointer and `const char *`)

## How to compile

I used Windows to create this but I'm sure it can be compiled on other platforms.

For Windows, run this command:

```cmd
gcc src\main.c -o RaylibSortingVisualizer.exe -Iinclude -Llib -lraylib -lopengl32 -lgdi32 -lwinmm -pthread -O2
```

To compile in debug mode, replace `-O2` with `-g`.

You can get GCC for Windows [here](https://www.mingw-w64.org/).

### Using my Makefile?

Please **read the warnings** at the top. Thank you!

## To-do

- [X] Add indicator for where array accesses are, with different colors for reads, writes, and both ([commit bc540cc](https://github.com/wmpowell8/RaylibSortingVisualizer/commit/bc540cc1ceae5de769dd40eda9566bbea58ca124))
  - [X] Make the indicator more visible ([commit f44feb7](https://github.com/wmpowell8/RaylibSortingVisualizer/commit/f44feb734cb0bacd6af8d58c7e7b7ead949563d5))
- [X] Add sounds ([commit ad13cd8](https://github.com/wmpowell8/RaylibSortingVisualizer/commit/ad13cd830af638f578367f0773e4142bc5ea66d0))
- [X] Add a HUD using a non-obtrusive color ([commit ce77fdc](https://github.com/wmpowell8/RaylibSortingVisualizer/commit/ce77fdc2f51498ac3e74572db742909b3b439866))
- [ ] Add more algorithms

## What do I think of this?

I started this project in C, so I'm sticking with C, but man, do I wish I used [Rust](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust).

Commit message:

Added more info to help contributors add new sorting algorithms The info can be found in `README.md` and in doc comments in `src/Array.c`.

README.md, after:

# Raylib Sorting Visualizer

A sorting algorithm visualizer created with [Raylib](https://github.com/raysan5/raylib) and C.

## Features

- `Array` struct pointer type for dealing with variable-length arrays (see [src/Array.c](src/Array.c) for documentation on how to use)
- `Algorithm` struct type for dealing with algorithms (contains a `bool (*)(Array)` function pointer and `const char *`)

## How to compile

I used Windows to create this but I'm sure it can be compiled on other platforms.

For Windows, run this command:

```cmd
gcc src\main.c -o RaylibSortingVisualizer.exe -Iinclude -Llib -lraylib -lopengl32 -lgdi32 -lwinmm -pthread -O2
```

To compile in debug mode, replace `-O2` with `-g`.

You can get GCC for Windows [here](https://www.mingw-w64.org/).

### Using my Makefile?

Please **read the warnings** at the top. Thank you!

## To-do

- [X] Add indicator for where array accesses are, with different colors for reads, writes, and both ([commit bc540cc](https://github.com/wmpowell8/RaylibSortingVisualizer/commit/bc540cc1ceae5de769dd40eda9566bbea58ca124))
  - [X] Make the indicator more visible ([commit f44feb7](https://github.com/wmpowell8/RaylibSortingVisualizer/commit/f44feb734cb0bacd6af8d58c7e7b7ead949563d5))
- [X] Add sounds ([commit ad13cd8](https://github.com/wmpowell8/RaylibSortingVisualizer/commit/ad13cd830af638f578367f0773e4142bc5ea66d0))
- [X] Add a HUD using a non-obtrusive color ([commit ce77fdc](https://github.com/wmpowell8/RaylibSortingVisualizer/commit/ce77fdc2f51498ac3e74572db742909b3b439866))
- [ ] Add more algorithms

### Contributing new algorithms

To contribute new algorithms, first read the documentation comments in [src/Array.c](src/Array.c) to get an idea of how this visualizer implements algorithms and dynamically-sized arrays. Then go into the [src/algorithms/sort](src/algorithms/sort) folder and create a new file. In this file you will define a new `Algorithm` which contains the data for the sorting algorithm you're implementing. Finally, go into [src/main.c](src/main.c), include the file you just created, and add a new call to `show_sort` under the long if-statement in the `sort_proc` function. For information on which arguments you should put into the `show_sort` call to make your new algorithm show properly, consult the documentation comments on `show_sort`.

## What do I think of this?

I started this project in C, so I'm sticking with C, but man, do I wish I used [Rust](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust).
